Add page for canonical factory contracts (#2204)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/03-deploy-an-orbit-chain/07-canonical-factory-contracts.mdx

---
title: 'Canonical factory contracts'
description: 'Learn how to use the canonical factory contracts for deploying your Orbit chain'
author: jose-franco
sme: jose-franco
content_type: how-to
---

import { AddressExplorerLink as AEL } from '@site/src/components/AddressExplorerLink';

> Deploying new Orbit chains is usually done through a `RollupCreator` contract that takes care of the process of creating the needed contracts and sending the initialization messages from the parent to the child chain. Similarly, creating a token bridge for an Orbit chain is usually done using a `TokenBridgeCreator` contract that creates the token bridge contracts in both the parent and child chains (this last one via [Parent-to-child messages](/how-arbitrum-works/10-l1-to-l2-messaging.mdx)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying new Orbit chains is usually done through a `RollupCreator` contract that processes the creation of the needed contracts and sends the initialization messages from the parent to the child chain. Similarly, creating a token bridge for an Orbit chain is usually done using a `TokenBridgeCreator` contract that creates the token bridge contracts in both the parent and child chains (this last one via [Parent-to-child messages](/how-arbitrum-works/10-l1-to-l2-messaging.mdx)).
```

> This page describes the benefits of using these canonical factory contracts, and lists their addresses in all supported chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes the benefits of using these canonical factory contracts and lists their addresses in all supported chains.
```

:::info Use the Orbit SDK

> Even though these contracts are used to create Orbit chains, it is recommended to go through the [Orbit SDK](/launch-orbit-chain/orbit-sdk-introduction.md) to interact with them. Doing so prevents misconfiguring certain parameters and using appropriate defaults for most of them.

Author: Changed a bit the sentence, to put a bit more emphasis on using the SDK
`However, it is strongly recommended to go through...`

Let me know what you think!
